## Issues with Running Puppeteer E2E Tests

Various problems may arise when running tests with Puppeteer. Most of them are caused by missing dependencies in the system or system security constraints. Some known problems that you may encounter during the exercise are listed below.

For additional information on resolving Puppeteer issues, refer to [this link](https://pptr.dev/troubleshooting).

You can also find information about this configuration [here](https://stenciljs.com/docs/end-to-end-testing#caveat-about-e2e-tests-automation-on-cdci).

### Error `Failed to set up Chromium r...` or `Failed to set up Chrome r...`

This error can have various reasons. Either the server from which Chromium is installed is unavailable, there are restricted access rights, or the specific version is not available for the platform. There are several possible solutions; we recommend trying the following step by step until the installation is successful:

1. Try installing Puppeteer with the `--ignore-scripts` option:

```ps
npm install puppeteer --ignore-scripts
```

2. Try installing Puppeteer with the `--unsafe-perm` option:

```ps
npm install puppeteer --unsafe-perm
```

3. Try changing the source for Chromium to a different server:

```ps
npm config set puppeteer_download_host=https://storage.googleapis.com.cnpmjs.org
npm install puppeteer
```

4. Set the environment variable `PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD` to `true` and install Puppeteer:

```ps
$env:PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD="true"
npm install puppeteer
```

Subsequently, install [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) or [Chromium](https://www.chromium.org/getting-involved/download-chromium/) on your device, according to your operating system. In the file `${WAC_ROOT}/ambulance-ufe/stencil.config.ts`, set the path to the Chromium installation:

```ts
...
export const config: Config = {
  ...
  testing: {
    ...
    puppeteerLaunchOptions: { @_add_@
      executablePath: 'C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Google\\Chrome\\Application\\chrome.exe'  @_add_@
    }  @_add_@
  }
  ...
}
```

Set the value of `executablePath` according to the location where Chrome or Chromium is installed on your device.

### Error `Failed to launch the browser process! .../chrome: error while loading shared libraries ...`

This error indicates that the required libraries are not available on the system. It typically occurs in CI and development environments in a Docker container. In such cases, it is necessary to install the required libraries. On an Ubuntu system, you can do this with the following command:

```bash
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install -y libnss3 libnspr4 libatk1.0-0 libatk-bridge2.0-0 libcups2 libdrm2 libxkbcommon0 libxcomposite1 libxdamage1 libxfixes3 libxrandr2 libgbm1 libasound2
```

Similarly, you can proceed in a similar way for other distributions.

### Error `No usable sandbox!`

While running tests, you may encounter the error `No usable sandbox!`. This error is caused by the Chrome browser's requirement to create a secure environment for executing page code. In some environments - especially when running in Docker containers - the process may not have the privileges to create such an environment. In such a case, it is necessary to disable the sandbox for the Chrome browser. This can be done by adding the following configuration in the `${WAC_ROOT}/ambulance-ufe/stencil.config.ts` file:

```ts
...
export const config: Config = {
  ...
  testing: {
    ...
    puppeteerLaunchOptions: { @_add_@
      args: ['--no-sandbox', '--disable-setuid-sandbox']  @_add_@
    }  @_add_@
  }
  ...
}
```
